# Covid-19-and-Pneumonia-Detection-Using-Chest-Xray-Images-Full-Desktop-Application-
"Detection of Covid-19 &amp; Pneumonia” is a desktop application which utilizes moderate desktop system. System will be using machine learning algorithms, which will help to detect to “covid-19 &amp; Pneumonia” using chest “x-ray images”. It is a real time disease detection system. Due to current situation around the world, most of the people are suffering from “Covid-19” and “Pneumonia”. The system will be used for the identification of the effected one’s. The main purpose of our project is to develop a system that will identify the patients either they are suffering from “Covid-19” or “Pneumonia”. In the current situation the practices taking place for the detection of “Covid-19” &amp; “Pneumonia” includes hardware which is quite expensive and out of reach for the normal use. Hardware required qualified person to operate it. The knowledge and implementation on this current scenario is quite limited. This system will be in reach for an ordinary person, which will not require any expertise to operate it. Our system will detect two different diseases in real time.  This system is based on recognition of “Covid-19” and “Pneumonia” on the basis of “Chest X-ray” images. This system is hardware free which makes it useful for every patient, and will evaluate efficient results. Keeping for hardware free this system will be accessible and easily available for the usage, hence no special qualified operator is required to operate it. This system is developed in spyder using python and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN).  System testing, load testing, compatibility testing and integration testing techniques are performed on this system. Quality, accuracy, performance and consistency is checked through these testing techniques. All the modules containing image loading, model saving, detection, report generating are working perfectly. No significant errors are found during the testing phase.  It is only limited to chest x-rays as an input images. As it is a desktop application, which will only work on desktop and windows environment. It requires only digital images of chest x-rays as an input. As future work, to overcome these limitations we can add the variety of input types. We can deploy this system on different platforms like web and android.
